List – 7 Questions
1. Create a list of 5 integers entered by the user. Print the sum of all
elements.
Hint: Use a loop to take 5 inputs and sum() function.

2. Write a program to count how many times a number appears in a list.
Hint: Use list.count(x) method.

3. Write a program that removes all even numbers from a list.
Hint: Use a loop with if number % 2 != 0.

4. Find the largest and smallest elements in a list.
Hint: Use max() and min() functions.

5. Sort a list of numbers in ascending order.
Hint: Use list.sort() or sorted(list).

6. Create a list of fruits. Ask user to enter a fruit and check if it’s in the list.
Hint: Use in keyword to check membership.

7. Reverse the elements of a list without using reverse() function.
Hint: Use slicing: list[::-1] or loop to reverse manually.

Tuple – 6 Questions

8. Create a tuple with 5 elements and display its length.
Hint: Use len() function.

9. Ask the user to enter 5 numbers and store them in a tuple. Then display
their average.
Hint: Convert input to int, use sum() and len().

10. Check if a specific number is present in a tuple.
Hint: Use in keyword.

11. Convert a list of numbers into a tuple.
Hint: Use tuple(your_list).

12. Write a program to find the index of a number in a tuple.
Hint: Use tuple.index(x) method.

13. Try to change the value of an element in a tuple and observe the result.
Hint: This will raise an error – explain immutability.


Set – 7 Questions

14. Create a set of 5 integers. Try adding a duplicate element and print the
set.
Hint: Sets ignore duplicates.

15. Take two sets from user input and display: union, intersection, and
difference.
Hint: Use |, &, and - operators or set.union() etc.

16. Write a program to find common elements from two sets.
Hint: Use intersection: set1 & set2.

17. Remove a specific element from a set.
Hint: Use set.remove(x) or discard(x) (avoid crash if not found).

18. Check if one set is a subset of another.
Hint: Use set1.issubset(set2).

19. Convert a list with repeated items into a set and print unique elements
only.
Hint: set(list) removes duplicates.

20. Take a string from user and display all unique characters.
Hint: Convert string to set using set(string).

Scenario: Grocery Billing System
Question:
You're building a simple grocery billing program. Ask the user to enter the names
and prices of 5 items. Store the names in one list and the prices in another. Finally,
display the total bill and all items purchased.
Hint to Students:
● Use two lists: one for item names (item_names), one for prices
(item_prices).
● Use a for loop (5 times) to take item name and price from user.
● Use sum(item_prices) to get total bill.
● You can also use zip() to nicely display item with its price.
Bonus Tip: Show output like:
Apple - Rs.100
Milk - Rs.70
Total: Rs.170

Scenario: Student Grades (Immutable Records)
Question:
You are storing student grade records which should not be changed once entered.
Ask the user to input 3 subjects' marks and store them as a tuple. Then calculate and
display the average mark.
Hint to Students:
● Tuples are good when data shouldn’t be changed.
● Use tuple() to store the marks.
● Use sum() and len() to calculate average.
Bonus Tip:
Explain why tuples are good for marks: they are fixed once entered, and cannot be
accidentally changed.


🧾 Scenario: Unique Visitors Tracker
Question:
Imagine you're tracking website visitors by their names (or IDs). Ask the user to
enter visitor names (with possible duplicates). Store them in a set to get only unique
visitors. Finally, display how many unique people visited.
Hint to Students:
● Use a set() to store names.
● Use a loop to take input multiple times.
● Sets automatically remove duplicates.
● Use len(visitor_set) to count unique visitors.
Bonus Challenge:
Allow user to enter names until they type "done".
visitor_set = set()
while True:
name = input("Enter visitor name (or 'done' to finish): ")
if name.lower() == 'done':
break
visitor_set.add(name)